# Final-Project-Tableau

## Project/Goals
To better understand the relationship between Canadians and the real estate market, I have been asked to provide answers based on data retrieved from the Canadian Open Data Portal.  These are specifically:

- Weekly earnings from 1.1.2001 to 15.4.2015 (weekly_earnings - CSV)
- Housing constructions from 1955 to 2019 (real_estate_numbers - CSV)
- House prices from 1.1.2005 to 1.9.2020 (real_estate_prices - EXCEL)
- Housing_price_index from November 1979 to September 2020
- Office_realestate_index from November 1979 to September 2020
- Consumer index from November 1979 to September 2020

## Process
### Exploratory Analysis
Many of the files included irrelevant information too difficult to simply filter out in Tableau.  Much of the work needed to be done in Excel for the spreadsheets and in Python for the JSON file, where for the JSON file the extracted data is in the "earnings" csv.  Not all files in the data folder of the repository were used in Tableau

### Providing Visualizations
As an extension of exploratory analysis, the data needed to properly be visualized in Tableau, where certain transformations of the data became evident and the process continued back and forth between Tableau and excel, trying to find the best method to achieve calculated results.


## Results (Option 1)
### Show the trend of house prices across Canada in the last 40 years (table housing_price_index).

### Compare the trend after 2005 with actual benchmark prices in table real_estate_prices to see if there are any differences.

### Compare this trend with the trend of office prices. Which one is getting more expensive, faster?

### Create a heatmap of Canada with current house prices for each available district.

### Are the price differences between different districts increasing?

### Compare the trend of house prices with earnings.

### Plot consumer_index together with housing_price_index and fit the regression line between them. Can we predict consumer_index from the housing_price_index?




## Challenges 
Data transformation proved difficult in Tableau and some columns were ultimately calculated in Excel.

Geolocation data generated by Tableau does not include regions in Canada, only cities and provinces.  Many of the "Regions" needed to be provided a set of latitude and longitude values manually to be properly charted in the Heatmap.

The domain knowledge required to understand the data was daunting at first.  Much of the data cannot be related to each other as the units do not line up.

## Future Goals
(what would you do if you had more time?)
